# Paper deatils and data desription

## 1) Automated Identification of Security Issues from Commit Messages and Bug Reports
The number of vulnerabilities in open source libraries is increasing rapidly. However, the majority of them do not go through public disclosure. These unidentified vulnerabilities put developers’ prod- ucts at risk of being hacked since they are increasingly relying on open source libraries to assemble and build software quickly. To find unidentified vulnerabilities in open source libraries and se- cure modern software development, we describe an efficient au- tomatic vulnerability identification system geared towards track- ing large-scale projects in real time using natural language pro- cessing and machine learning techniques. Built upon the latent in- formation underlying commit messages and bug reports in open source projects using GitHub, JIRA, and Bugzilla, our K -fold stack- ing classifier achieves promising results on vulnerability identifica- tion. Compared to the state of the art SVM-based classifier in prior work on vulnerability identification in commit messages, we im- prove precision by 54.55% while maintaining the same recall rate. For bug reports, we achieve a much higher precision of 0.70 and recall rate of 0.71 compared to existing work. Moreover, observa- tions from running the trained model at SourceClear in production for over 3 months has shown 0.83 precision, 0.74 recall rate, and detected 349 hidden vulnerabilities, proving the effectiveness and generality of the proposed approach.

Datasets: 5002 projects in GitHub, all the issue tickets of 1310 projects in JIRA, and all the bug reports of 2224 projects in Bugzilla.
