# Paper deatils and data desription

## 1) A Large Scale Study of Programming Languages and Code Quality in Github:
What is the effect of programming languages on software quality? This question has been a topic of much debate for a very long time. In this study, we gather a very large data set from GitHub (729 projects, 80 Million SLOC, 29,000 authors, 1.5 million com- mits, in 17 languages) in an attempt to shed some empirical light on this question. This reasonably large sample size allows us to use a mixed-methods approach, combining multiple regression model- ing with visualization and text analytics, to study the effect of lan- guage features such as static v.s. dynamic typing, strong v.s. weak typing on software quality. By triangulating findings from differ- ent methods, and controlling for confounding effects such as team size, project size, and project history, we report that language de- sign does have a significant, but modest effect on software quality. Most notably, it does appear that strong typing is modestly better than weak typing, and among functional languages, static typing is also somewhat better than dynamic typing. We also find that func- tional languages are somewhat better than procedural languages. It is worth noting that these modest effects arising from language de- sign are overwhelmingly dominated by the process factors such as project size, team size, and commit size. However, we hasten to caution the reader that even these modest effects might quite possi- bly be due to other, intangible process factors, e.g., the preference of certain personality types for functional, static and strongly typed languages.

Datasets: 729 projects from github.

## 2) Large-Scale Analysis of the Co-Commit Patterns of the Active Developers in GitHub’s Top Repositories:
GitHub, the largest code hosting site (with 25 million public active repositories and contributions from 6 million active users), provides an unprecedented opportunity to observe the collaboration patterns of software developers. Understanding the patterns behind the social coding phenomena is an active research area where the insights gained can guide the design of better collaboration tools, and can also help to identify and select developer talent. In this paper, we present a large-scale analysis of the co-commit patterns in GitHub. We analyze 10 million commits made by 200 thousand developers to 16 thousand repositories, using 17 of the most popular programming languages over a period of 3 years. Although a large volume of data is included in our study, we pay close attention to the participation criteria for repositories and developers. We select repositories by reputation (based on star ranking), and we introduce the notion of active developer in GitHub (observing that a limited subset of developers is responsible for the vast majority of the commits). Using co-authorship networks, we analyze the co-commit patterns of the active developer network for each pro- gramming language. We observe that the active developer networks are less connected and more centralized than the general GitHub developer networks, and that the patterns vary significantly among languages. We compare our results to other collaborative environ- ments (Wikipedia and scientific research networks), and we also describe the evolution of the co-commit patterns over time.

Datasets: 16827 github projects

## 3) What do large commits tell us? A taxonomical study of large commits:
Research in the mining of software repositories has frequently ignored commits that include a large number of files (we call these large commits). The main goal of this paper is to un- derstand the rationale behind large commits, and if there is anything we can learn from them. To address this goal we performed a case study that included the manual classi- fication of large commits of nine open source projects. The contributions include a taxonomy of large commits, which are grouped according to their intention. We contrast large commits against small commits and show that large com- mits are more perfective while small commits are more cor- rective. These large commits provide us with a window on the development practices of maintenance teams.

Datasets: 9 projects
